feat(translation): #364 translate problem 560 (#366)
azl397985856/leetcode: problems/560.subarray-sum-equals-k.en.md

## Problem

https://leetcode.com/problems/subarray-sum-equals-k/description/

## Problem Description

```
Given an array of integers and an integer k, you need to find the total number of continuous subarrays whose sum equals to k.

Example 1:
Input:nums = [1,1,1], k = 2
Output: 2
Note:
The length of the array is in range [1, 20,000].
The range of numbers in the array is [-1000, 1000] and the range of the integer k is [-1e7, 1e7].
```

## Solution

> The simplest method is to use brute force. Consider every possible subarray, find the sum of the elements of each of those subarrays and check for the equality of the sum with `k`. Whenever the sum equals `k`, we increment the `count`. Time Complexity is O(n^2). Implementaion is as followed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest method is `Brute-force`. Consider every possible subarray, find the sum of the elements of each of those subarrays and check for the equality of the sum with `k`. Whenever the sum equals `k`, we increment the `count`. Time Complexity is O(n^2). Implementation is as followed.
```

```py
class Solution:
    def subarraySum(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        cnt, n =  0, len(nums)
        for i in range(n):
            for j in range(i, n):
                if (sum(nums[i:j + 1]) == k): cnt += 1
        return cnt
```

> If we implement the `sum()` method on our own, we get the time complexity O(n^3).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we implement the `sum()` method on our own, we get the time complexity of O(n^3).
```

```py
class Solution:
    def subarraySum(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> int:
      cnt, n =  0, len(nums)
      pre = [0] * (n + 1)
      for i in range(1, n + 1):
          pre[i] = pre[i - 1] + nums[i - 1]
      for i in range(1, n + 1):
          for j in range(i, n + 1):
              if (pre[j] - pre[i - 1] == k): cnt += 1
      return cnt
```

Actually, there is a more clever way to do this. Instead of using a prefix sum array, we use a hashmap to reduce the time complexity to O(n).

Algorithm:

- We make use of a hashmap to store the cumulative sum `acc` and the number of times the same sum occurs. We use `acc` as the `key` of the hashmap and the number of times the same `acc` occurs as the `value`.

> - We traverse over the given array and keep on finding the cumulative sum `acc`. Every time we ecounter a new `acc` we add a new entry to the hashmap. If the same `acc` occurs, we increment the count corresponding to that `acc` in the hashmap. If `acc` equals `k`, obviously `count` should be incremented. If `acc - k` has occured, we should increment `account` by `hashmap[acc - k]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We traverse over the given array and keep on finding the cumulative sum `acc`. Every time encounter a new `acc` we add a new entry to the hashmap. If the same `acc` occurs, we increment the count corresponding to that `acc` in the hashmap. If `acc` equals `k`, obviously `count` should be incremented. If `acc - k` got, we should increment `account` by `hashmap[acc - k]`.
```

## Key Points

- Prefix sum array
- Make use of a hashmap to track cumulative sum and avoid repetitive calculation.

## Code (`JavaScript/Python`)

*JavaScript Code*
```js
/*
 * @lc app=leetcode id=560 lang=javascript
 *
 * [560] Subarray Sum Equals K
 */
/**
 * @param {number[]} nums
 * @param {number} k
 * @return {number}
 */
var subarraySum = function (nums, k) {
  const hashmap = {};
  let acc = 0;
  let count = 0;

  for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
    acc += nums[i];

    if (acc === k) count++;

    if (hashmap[acc - k] !== void 0) {
      count += hashmap[acc - k];
    }

    if (hashmap[acc] === void 0) {
      hashmap[acc] = 1;
    } else {
      hashmap[acc] += 1;
    }
  }

  return count;
};
```

*Python Cose*

```py
class Solution:
    def subarraySum(self, nums: List[int], k: int) -> int:
        d = {}
        acc = count = 0
        for num in nums:
            acc += num
            if acc == k:
                count += 1
            if acc - k in d:
                count += d[acc-k]
            if acc in d:
                d[acc] += 1
            else:
                d[acc] = 1
        return count
```

## Extension

> There is a similar but a bit more complicated problem. Link to the problem: [437.path-sum-iii](https://github.com/azl397985856/leetcode/blob/master/problems/437.path-sum-iii.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a similar but a bit more complicated problem. Link to the problem: [437.path-sum-iii](https://github.com/azl397985856/leetcode/blob/master/problems/437.path-sum-iii.md)(Chinese).
```
